{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red8\green72\blue169;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c1\c1;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c99985;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;
\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c36863\c72157;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
KPMG in Canada helps organizations get through complex operational change to enable cost efficiencies and operational excellence: 
\fs32 \cf4 \cb5 Enterprises of all types, sizes and locations face a common set of challenges to their business operational efficiency. Some of these challenges include cost-reduction pressures, unexpected supply chain challenges, and digital disruption. These issues impact differently from one business to another but dealing with operational effectiveness is generally a straightforward process.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa300\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb5 It begins by identifying opportunities for growth, followed by the implementation of Lean Six Sigma principles into your business model. This type of process improvement requires a combination of deep operational and sector experience. KPMG's Operational Excellence team has exactly this kind of experience, and we can help your company improve operations and assure quality while driving value through improved efficiencies in an organization, location, process, technology, sourcing and more.\cb1 \
\cb5 The concept of operational excellence revolves around a transformation process in operations management that goes beyond the traditional event-based model of improvement. Changing organizational culture over the long term can be a process fraught with difficulty, even though the rewards are worth the time and trouble. KPMG is one of the top operational excellence consulting firms. We've found that to improve operational excellence within an enterprise, management must apply principles, systems, and tools that contribute to the sustainable improvement of key performance metrics.\
KPMG in Canada can assist you in streamlining processes to achieve operational excellence. No matter where you are in your journey to operational excellence, from reviewing your current processes to implementing game-changing new technology, our \cf6 team of experienced professionals\cf4  is here to help.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa300\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf4 \cb5 Here are some of the ways KPMG can help your organization achieve operational excellence:
\f0\b0 \cb1 \

\f1\b \cb5 Operational transformation\cb1 : 
\f0\b0 \cb5 KPMG's operations transformation specialists bring a wide range of experience in all aspects of business operations from procurement to supply chain to sales and marketing. We use industry insights to develop an operational change strategy that fits with your strategic business objectives and financial goals to help your organization effectively modernize, increase efficiency and raise operational effectiveness. Taking a holistic approach that works across people, processes and technology, we develop operations management solutions that fit your business, and have an upfront focus on change management to better support and enable the positive impacts of change across your organization.\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb5 Cost optimization\cb1 : 
\f0\b0 \cb5 KPMG's Operations Excellence team works shoulder-to-shoulder with you to design and deliver sustainable improvements to your organization's cost base. Our specialized teams have deep industry experience to help you create tailored cost optimization strategies, enable process improvement and support the development of a culture of smart spending.\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb5 Business analytics\cb1 : 
\f0\b0 \cb5 We help you increase business operational efficiency by designing and embedding effective and transformative business analytics across your organization. Based on the desired future state of your business, our specialized teams help you select and prioritize the investments in supporting data and technology systems that we'll get you there.}