{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red1\green33\blue122;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red8\green72\blue169;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c1\c1;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c99985;\cssrgb\c0\c20000\c55294;
\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;\cssrgb\c0\c36863\c72157;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
KPMG in Canada can help you make your supply chain strategy and supply chain management transformation and execution more agile and effective;\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf4 \cb5 Drive your business through resilient and flexible supply chains:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa300\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf6 \cb5 Organizations are increasingly recognizing the importance of supply chains to be able to deliver value to their customers, manage risk and navigate through disruptions. COVID-19 exposed significant vulnerabilities in the supply chain. It underlined the fact that organizations today face unprecedented pressure to overhaul their supply chain operations - whether to embrace disruptive new technologies and improve supply chain visibility and integration, or to increase the overall flexibility and resilience of their supply chains.\cb1 \
\cb5 Organizations must pivot from a focus on products and processes to become more customer-centric, as consumers demand more extensive product choices, personalized service, faster lead times, full order visibility and "click-and-collect" convenience. However, adopting new technologies is not enough to meet the rising customer demand for speed and responsiveness. Supply chains need to transform to operate in this ever-changing digital world with agility and to do so profitably so they are a revenue driver for the business.\
KPMG Canada's \cf7 supply chain advisors\cf6  can help you optimize your supply chain and drive an effective supply chain transformation. With more than 1,100 specialists worldwide in supply chain and procurement digital transformation, our team has the skills, knowledge, and industry experience to help you design and manage supply chains here in Canada, and through your international network. We can help you create supply chains that are transparent, resilient, demand-driven and sustainable.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa300\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf6 \cb5 Some of the ways we collaborate with clients to unlock supply chain value include:
\f0\b0 \cb1  \cb5 Understanding customer segments, tailoring channels to personas\cb1 ; \cb5 Implementing strategies to manage risks of outsourced manufacturing and logistics operations\cb1 ; \cb5 Becoming more demand-driven and optimizing working capital\cb1 ; \cb5 Transforming the procurement function to deliver value\cb1 ; \cb5 Building the architecture and implement the latest 4.0 technologies to optimize operations\cb1 ; \cb5 Designing and implementing digital supply chains\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf4 Our supply chain services help solve your biggest challenges\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa300\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf6 \cb5 We offer a holistic set of solutions to develop the next generation of digital supply chain management for clients. Our supply chain advisors can help you drive meaningful benefits across your enterprise, whether by implementing a full-scale transformation or targeted improvements. Some of the services we offer for supply chain transformation include:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa300\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf6 \cb5 Supply chain strategy and analytics
\f0\b0 \cb1 : \cb5 Managing supply chains has become increasingly complex. While most companies seek to improve their operations, many do not have a qualitative framework or mechanism to decide where to start. Our supply chain strategy and analytics services help organizations create the business case, vision and roadmap for supply chain transformation.\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb5 Demand and supply, and inventory planning
\f0\b0 \cb1 : \cb5 We provide clients with operating models and technology backbones for demand-driven supply chains that integrate multifunctional planning processes, and efficiently balance supply and demand while gathering real-time data across transactional and planning platforms. We leverage predictive and prescriptive analytics to provide insights, guidance, and recommendations for better decision-making.\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb5 Procurement transformation
\f0\b0 \cb1 : \cb5 Is your procurement function helping the business keep pace with digital disruption delivering speed, innovation, and competitive advantage? Our procurement transformation consultants' help you address the full range of foundational factors that enable procurement to strategically support the enterprise's growth and competitive objectives, including: Designing strategy and implementing a robust operating mode: Getting spending management under control\cb1 : \cb5 Improving supplier collaboration and management\cb1 : \cb5 Instituting a third-party supply chain risk management program\cb1 ; \cb5 Leveraging the right technology for speed and effectiveness\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb5 Supply chain execution
\f0\b0 \cb1 : \cb5 We evaluate manufacturing capacity and technologies, production locations, core vs non-core products, and core capabilities vs those that can be outsourced. Our Industry 4.0 approach (i4.0) recognizes the critical importance of multidisciplinary teams to deliver transformative value. We use our hands-on industry experience to develop the i4.0 strategy and business case, improve supply chain processes, implement controls, and enable technology capabilities across your organization's enterprise manufacturing footprint.\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb5 Logistics and distribution
\f0\b0 \cb1 : \cb5 Using a holistic approach to analyzing end-to-end logistics and distribution processes, we help organizations design and implement logistics operating models focused on organizational structure, process architecture, technology strategy and asset optimization. We identify opportunities to enable your logistics strategy (e.g. 3PL/4PL, international logistics, global network design, reverse logistics), and adopt technology to increase logistics operations efficiencies, e.g.AI, RPA, emerging tech, warehouse management systems (WMS), and transportation management system (TMS).}