{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red8\green72\blue169;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c1\c1;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c99985;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;
\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c36863\c72157;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
KPMG in Canada provides people and change management services to help your HR strategy and business transformation succeed.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa300\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs32 \cf4 \cb5 Market leaders understand that their organization's talent help unlock a competitive advantage. As businesses continue to transform digitally, there is an increased and pressing need for Human Resources (HR) functions to create lasting business value by building the workforce needed to compete in a digital future.\cb1 \
\cb5 HR executives stepped up to the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic and played a critical role in enabling business continuity and success. For example, HR teams were key in driving employee engagement practices as their talent moved to a remote work or hybrid work setting; they developed purpose-driven initiatives to strengthen corporate culture, and implemented more structured diversity and inclusion efforts to address long-building issues of systemic racism and inequity.\cb1 \
\cb5 In order to sustain this impact and become strategic partners to the business, HR leaders are moving on from a reactive short-term view on talent management processes to a more visionary and prominent role in shaping the workforce to strengthen the overall organization.\cb1 \
\cb5 The HR function can be central in driving a culture of inclusion and innovation, supporting employees' upskilling and reskilling to strengthen business capabilities and enable new ways of working and collaborating to increase productivity and employee engagement, among other strategic efforts. By embracing analytical insights, digital tools, workforce-shaping methods, and purpose-driven practices, HR will have the opportunity to reinvent work and drive value in the post-pandemic enterprise. \
KPMG in Canada's \cf6 people and change team\cf4  can help your organization strengthen performance through proactive HR approaches, transformational plans, and change management programs to enable your organization's most valuable asset: your people. We help you shape your organization's future of work with specialized knowledge and industry experience implementing HR transformation programs, diversity and inclusion strategies, talent management processes, change management practices, and more. Our main services include:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa300\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf4 \cb5 HR transformation
\f1\b0 \cb1 : \cb5 The transformation of the HR function to address our changing business landscape and to be able to compete in the future remains a key challenge for many organizations. We help you develop a tailored HR model that aligns with your business strategy and that is equipped with the appropriate structure, capabilities and technology systems to help your HR function deliver real value to the business and shape your future of work.\cb1 \

\f2\b \cb5 Change management
\f1\b0 \cb1 : \cb5 Organizations today need to embrace change in order to survive and proactively drive change in order to sustain a competitive advantage. Whether the change is focused on a specific function or at an enterprise-wide level, changes in corporate strategy, processes, systems, and technology require that people perform and behave differently. We help you design and implement effective change management programs that mitigate organizational risk and realize sustainable benefits.\cb1 \

\f2\b \cb5 Equity, diversity and inclusion
\f1\b0 \cb1 : \cb5 Championing diversity and inclusion in the workforce is a commitment to be carried out with clear intent and discipline. All people, with diverse experiences, perspectives, and backgrounds, must feel welcome and thrive in our workplaces and communities. We help organizations create accessible, equitable and inclusive working environments by conducting diversity and inclusion reviews and helping clients develop and implement multi-year strategies and learning programs.\cb1 \

\f2\b \cb5 Talent strategy
\f1\b0 \cb1 : \cb5 Talent management is the process of developing people, driving employee engagement, streamlining HR processes, and optimizing supporting technologies to effectively address changing business conditions and seize opportunities impacting your workforce. We can help you assess and define talent management strategies that create real business impact for optimal talent acquisition, performance, development, and organizational structure.}