{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red238\green238\blue237;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c99956\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c99970;
\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c99985;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0\c90196;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c94614\c94614\c94496;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 KPMG in Canada can help drive your organization\'92s digital transformation with knowledge and experience in technology strategy and transformation\cb3 \
Technology strategy and digital transformation\cb5 helps define business value and innovation through the trusted implementation of leading digital technology strategies. Implementing a robust technology strategy can effectively support business imperatives including increase customer-centricity, improve efficiencies and agility, enable automation and enhance the effectiveness of critical business processes and modernize to gain a competitive advantage. Our KPMG technology strategy and transformation teams deliver the innovative end-to-end digital transformation that connects the front, middle and back-office. We work shoulder to shoulder with CIOs, chief technology officers, other digital leaders, and functional leaders to define their digital transformation vision, a tailored technology strategy, and implementation roadmaps that can deliver business value and create a truly connected enterprise.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa300\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb5 To help you transform your organization into a digitally-enabled and secure business engineered for profitable growth, our technology consulting specialists offer proven digital transformation capabilities supported by an unparallel technology vendor alliances ecosystem, extensive industry experience, and effective methodologies.\
Here are some of the ways KPMG helps our clients with technology strategy and transformation:\cb1 \
\cb5 Digital strategy and transformation\cb1 : \cb5 Digital transformation is one of the biggest and most challenging opportunities for businesses today. Our specialized technology and business teams provide industry-specific solutions and deliver transformative technology strategies, plans and architectures designed to address important business problems and achieve your objectives.\cb1 \
\cb5 Enterprise architecture\cb1 : \cb5 We help plan, design and guide your enterprise architecture development from business architecture through technology. Our holistic perspectives on enterprise design mitigate risks and optimize business benefits.\cb1 \
\cb5 Cloud strategy and integration\cb1 : \cb5 We provide end-to-end cloud integration and transformation services across the entire cloud lifecycle. From cloud strategy and planning to architecture and build, through to cloud-enabled operations.\cb1 \
\cb5 Enterprise solutions\cb1 : \cb5 Our enterprise design services draw upon the deep experience and established technology vendor alliances. We equip your organization with the means to drive value from platform evaluation through implementation and ongoing evolution.\cb1 \
\cb5 Information management, data and analytics\cb1 : \cb5 We help you unlock the value of your organization's data and tap into unique external data sources with trusted data and analytics strategies and solutions. Our knowledgeable information management advisors help clients to gain new insights, make more confident business decisions, and enable more effective real-time and predictive decision-making.\cb1 \
\cb5 Intelligent automation\cb1 : \cb5 Our specialized team brings innovation to operations with the combined skills of technical knowledge and practical experience at scale to help you accelerate your intelligent automation initiatives.\
Technology incubation and\'a0innovation\cb1 : \cb5 Our proven technology incubation and innovation strategies foster the development of new technology projects and facilitate cross-functional teaming.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf6 \cb7 Contact person: Jameel Ahamed \cf2 \cb3 is a Partner in this practise. \cb8 Sanjay Pathak is a Partner and National Leader in Technology Strategy and Digital Transformation Services\cb1  \cb8 KPMG in Canada}